add clickhouse materialized views blog (#7552)
highlight/highlight: blog-content/clickhouse-materialized-views.md

			})
      return generated_text

# Example usage
input_text = "The future of AI is"
print(generate_text(input_text))
```

The sample code runs inference using a popular HuggingFace model. The critical code path is wrapped with a contextmanager that starts and stops a span to time the duration of execution while reporting useful attributes that can help us debug the root cause of potential problems. Here, we’re reporting the `input` text, the `output` text, and the `num_tokens` sent to the model during inference.

How do ClickHouse Materialized Views relate to this? Well, in Highlight, we store each of these trace spans as a row in a table and provide a powerful search that allows finding interesting spans. We also allow visualizating that data via time-series aggregates to identify trends or learn useful correlations. Materialized Views allow us to continue to store this data in an efficient format while powering these features of search and aggregation.

## ClickHouse Powers Trace Search

Let’s search for cases where the inference was slow so that we can figure out if the size of our input (and the number of input tokens) has an effect on the inference duration.

> To write the ClickHouse SQL query, we first need to understand the trace schema as they are stored in the database. The table DDL looks something like this (see it [here](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/77d7ad357d921d9826e52ca2cfcf87ea7e684303/backend/clickhouse/migrations/000013_create_traces_table.up.sql) in our repo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write the ClickHouse SQL query, we first need to understand the traces schema, or how they are stored in the database. The table DDL looks something like this (see it [here](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/77d7ad357d921d9826e52ca2cfcf87ea7e684303/backend/clickhouse/migrations/000013_create_traces_table.up.sql) in our repo).
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE traces
(
    Timestamp           DateTime64(9),
    UUID                UUID,
    TraceId             String,
    SpanId              String,
    /* ... ommitted for brevity ... */
    ServiceName         LowCardinality(String),
    ServiceVersion      String,
    TraceAttributes     Map(LowCardinality(String), String)
)
ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree('/clickhouse/tables/{uuid}/{shard}', '{replica}')
PARTITION BY toDate(Timestamp)
ORDER BY (ProjectId, Timestamp, UUID); 
```

> While the attributes that are present on all traces are stores as top level columns, traces can have arbitrary custom attributes that can differ. The column `TraceAttributes` is a map that can store all of these values without having to worry about their type. In our ingest that writes data to the table, we format all `TraceAttributes` as strings where the key stores the name of the attribute. This allows us to mix different potential trace attributes within the same table regardless of their data type (where more complex values can be stored as their JSON string representation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the attributes that are present on all traces are stored as top-level columns, traces can have arbitrary custom attributes that can differ. The column `TraceAttributes` is a map that can store all of these values without having to worry about their types. In our ingest that writes data to the table, we format all `TraceAttributes` as strings where the key stores the name of the attribute. This allows us to mix different potential trace attributes within the same table regardless of their data type (where more complex values can be stored as their JSON string representation).
```
